[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is "Mystery Teachings."
On my journey in the
Mystery School tradition,
especially through the
Kabbalistic teachings,
one of the many books
we reference and study
is the "Sepher Yetzirah."
When you read it, it's not
one of those kinds of things
that you just pick up
and read cover to cover.
It's a book that requires deep
contemplation, meditation,
and discussion.
And through the
oral teachings, we
can really start to unpack it.
The "Sepher Yetzirah" is
actually a very small book.
It's only like 12 pages.
And yet, those 12 pages contain
volumes of mystery teachings.
And throughout my 20 years
of studying Kabbalah,
I've read it many times over
and deeply studied its passages.
The more I grow on this path
and through exploring the deeper
teachings of
Kabbalah, the more I
am able to discover through
the "Sepher Yetzirah."
But at first, it
was such an enigma--
a perplexing mystery.
I'm someone who likes
to solve riddles.
And the "Sepher Yetzirah"
is definitely a riddle.
It's obviously coded,
but it's not just a code.
It's also giving us formulas.
It talks about creation
and also about alchemy
but without using those terms.
And all kinds of mysteries are
revealed within this "Sepher
Yetzirah."
So what's it revealing to us?
Well it's formulas for how to
apply these mysteries in a very
magical way in our lives.
For me personally,
it was like getting
a multi-dimensional
puzzle to solve.
And in the process of working
with it and contemplating it,
it helps us to expand
our mind and the way
that we operate, coming to
more multi-dimensional ways
of operation.
It gives us the keys to
creation and manifestation.
So let's dive in and experience
a taste of the "Sepher
Yetzirah," the book of
formation, and some of the ways
that we use it in
the mystery teachings
of universal Kabbalah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The "Sepher Yetzirah" is one of
the oldest and most mysterious
of the Kabbalistic texts.
The first written
commentaries were
published in the 10th
century, but the teachings
of the "Sepher Yetzirah"
have been around
for thousands of years.
There are different translations
and interpretations of it.
In the Mystery School
tradition that I come from,
we work with the version
translated by William Wynn
Westcott, which highlights
more of the alchemical nature
of this text.
From it, we see that the "Sepher
Yetzirah" is an incredible code
for understanding the
density levels of spirit
and how they come
into the physical.
And it's one of the
most amazing guides
for alchemical and magical
operations ever written.
It's about helping us
in our own progression
towards becoming a higher
being, towards attaining
the perfected state of the Adam
Kadmon or the divine human.
The "Sepher Yetzirah"
starts off by saying,
"In 32 wonderful paths of wisdom
did the Source engrave his name
by 3 Seraphim--
numbers, letters, and sounds."
These are tools
or building blocks
used to create the
32 paths of wisdom
that we humans can receive.
How do we receive this gift?
Well, it says here that
the divine creator engraved
his name, but where
is it engraved?
Well, it's in our DNA.
Our tree of life is
the 32 paths of wisdom.
This is the sacred geometry
blueprint or scaffolding
of our DNA.
But here when we're
talking about the DNA,
we're not talking about the
physical DNA necessarily.
We're talking about the
sacred geometry blueprints
prior to the physical
coming into being,
not the DNA within
the cells of the body
in this physical flesh, but
within the tree of life that
was the original DNA blueprint.
And what we have to understand
about the numbers and letters
here is that they're not what
we normally think of as a number
or a letter in the usual sense.
These are more about
rays of creation.
And each ray has a unique
frequency, a purpose,
and an essence.
And on the overall pattern
of the tree of life,
the numbers form the core
anchor points or the spheres,
while each letter
corresponds to a pathway that
connects two spheres.
Letters can be thought
of as archetypes.
And each letter represents
a transformation
from one state of
being to another.
They all have an
intelligence behind them.
And in a way, they're even
like angelic-type beings
unto themselves.
Now, within any one
number or letter,
there's far more information
that we could unpack.
We could talk about any one
of them for a whole day.
And when we talk about
numbers, letters, and sounds,
we're not just
talking about language
or abstract mathematics.
We're talking about the
fundamental building
blocks of creation.
So what are these
numbers and letters?
Let's take a closer look.
The letters are grouped
in different ways.
They talk about there being
three mothers, seven doubles,
and 12 simple letters,
making 22 altogether.
The three mothers are called
the foundation to all things.
The seven doubles
are called as such
because they have a double
meaning and a double sound.
And these relate to polarities
like life and death or war
and peace.
And we experience
these polarities
in this physical world.
The 12 simple letters
usually relate
to functions or properties
such as our five
senses, sexual energy,
movements, imagination.
Their functions are qualities
that we experience here
in our physical life.
Now, even within the
groupings of the letters,
there's a number system--
3, 7, 12, 22, 32,
64, and onwards.
And so the numbers are very
important within all of this.
And what's more is each
letter has a number.
So if we have a combination
of letters to form a word,
we can look at the
mathematical value of the word.
And this is known as gematria.
Now, some Kabbalists use this
as a way to decode the Torah,
looking at the number
of values of the words.
And where there are words
with the same number value,
they think that there's
then a hidden connection
between these words.
The same thing can be
done with entire passages
and if they come to
the same number value
that there would be a hidden
meaning, even if they're
in completely different
sections of the Torah.
So the "Sepher Yetzirah"
delivers a science and alchemy
for these building blocks of
numbers, letters, and sounds
and how we can use them
to raise our vibration up
to higher levels.
But if we're to dive
into it mathematically,
some believe we
could even use it
to verify different
aspects of creation
from a physical perspective.
It even gets into the interplay
of the four elements--
for example between
fire and water with air
mediating between them.
That's a very
alchemical conversation.
And in essence, it's a codex.
But what exactly are
we deciphering here?
The "Sepher Yetzirah" is a coded
manual for how to understand
and being connection with what
we might call the communication
network of the universe.
That communication is done
through an ancient language.
But the true language here
is not necessarily Hebrew.
That's one way it's
expressed here.
The true language
of the universe
is frequency and
vibrational energy.
The tree of life is formed
by this coming together
of these different frequencies
into one nexus or pattern.
And this coming together of
the languages of creation
into this pattern allows for
an energetic flow and operation
of the universe.
And when we have
this understanding
and know how to use it,
that's what gives us the power
to become creator
gods in our own way
and to realize our own
abilities as divine beings.
So how can we apply
this to our lives?
Well, first of all, numbers are
something that we traditionally
associate with mathematics.
And we know from
science that mathematics
is a universal language
underlying everything
within our phenomenal world.
Numbers are like a frequency.
It's a beat or a rhythm.
It's an electrical
current that runs
through us and through our
body and through the cosmos.
We each have our
own numbers as well.
We have the number of our
birth date, for example,
and then we also have
the letters of our name
which can be reduced to numbers.
And we can identify
those to then come up
with what we call
our personal number.
Even in our astrological
chart, there
are numbers and patterns
that can be identified.
And in Kabbalah and
the tree of life,
we look at what
those numbers mean.
Now, the Kabbalistic numerology
has a different meaning
of each number and
in Kabbalah, they
relate them to where they
fall on the tree of life.
And through those
aspects of the tree,
we can then come
to know ourselves.
And this deepens
our self-knowledge
by understanding our
relationship to those numbers.
One other way to apply
this is by understanding
that numbers are one of the ways
the universe can communicate
with us.
It's one of those
universal languages.
So for example, when
we see numbers show up
in repetition around
us, this is usually
a good indicator and
reminder of the connectedness
of the universe.
It's a synchronicity, a
sign to pay attention,
not only to pay
attention to what's
going on around or
within our thoughts,
but also to the
meaning of the numbers.
Notice which number
is being repeated,
and then we can take a
look at the tree of life
to have a deeper
understanding of that number
and what to pay attention to.
So the numbers are
frequencies of vibration,
but the letters are
more like archetypes.
They show that there's
power in words.
And in the ancient magical
traditions of Kabbalah,
words are more like formulas.
Each word is like a
mathematical formula bringing
different aspects of creation
or different ingredients
together into one mix to
communicate an intention.
But the word has a more
complex pattern of energy
that flows through it.
And as that word
gets expressed, it's
delivering that
particular energy.
And its vibrational
pattern gets communicated.
So words are a
way that energy is
transmitted from a thought
or an idea within the mind.
And that thought is then
spoken or expressed,
impacting the physical
and creating a result.
The result is
reflected back to us.
And this helps us to
then see manifestation
of that divine
expression and ultimately
helps us to understand
our own divinity more.
One way we can think
of it as that numbers
are like a pure tone
or pure frequency
while the letters show a
movement or transformation
from one frequency to another.
And as we bring the letters
together to form words,
it's almost like these
intersecting frequency
waves and scalar waves.
And as they intersect in a
particular pattern or formation
of letters, it creates
this complex pattern that
impresses itself upon materia.
It then shapes it into a unique
form as that word is spoken.
So what this means
is that each form
has a unique name behind it.
And this is true for
all things manifested
in this physical density.
So how can we use this to
create in our own life?
Well, what we really
need to realize
is that there's power
in the words we choose
and in the speaking
of those words.
It's not just the
words, but it's also
the thoughts behind the words
and the vibrational essence
that we hold within
ourselves as we speak.
And it's our responsibility
when using these techniques
to control our thoughts and
be mindful of the words we
speak so that we're not
creating negative things.
A lot of the work that we
do in Kabbalah before we
get into that
practical work of using
the mysteries in the
"Sepher Yetzirah"
is the first the work
of cleaning up the mind.
The ascension process
with the tree of life
helps us gain better control
and mastery over our thoughts,
words, and deeds.
And then this brings us back
again to the third key--
the key of sound, that
vibrational energy
we use to utter words of power.
And in the ancient
creation stories
from different traditions
around the world,
there's always something
about the spoken word,
an outward vibrational
expression such as fiat lux--
let there be light.
This is where those
fire letters move
from the idea realm in
the mind to the divine
and that mathematical
abstract realm
into being communicated out
into the universe to influence
the material realm.
But in order to speak this
language of creation properly,
we have to have the right
alignment of our vibration
inwardly.
We need to be in alignment
with that divine will
and correctly utter
the sounds of power.
Now, getting into
that proper vibration
comes down to each
individual getting
into their own natural rhythm
and vibration, for example,
getting their cells and their
DNA fully activated in order
to attune to those
higher frequencies
and vibrations of true light.
So the "Sepher Yetzirah" says
that the numbers, letters,
and sounds form to the
32 paths of wisdom.
Well, what are these
paths of wisdom?
The "Sepher Yetzirah" breaks
this down into two groups.
And it says, "10 are
the ineffable Sephiroth.
22 are the letters."
So we had the 10 Sephiroth
and the 22 letters
that then come together to
form the 32 paths of wisdom.
And this arrangement of 10 and
22 to make 32 is very specific.
The "Sepher Yetzirah" even goes
so far as to say, "It's 10,
not 9, 10, not 11.
Understand this wisdom and
be wise in the perception."
So specifically 10,
and what's interesting
is that both with 10 and
with 32 is that these
relate to the number 5.
And 5 is the number of humans.
Why is 5 considered
the number of humans?
Well, it's written all over us.
We have five fingers on each
hand, five toes on each foot.
We have five major points within
our body, our hands, our legs,
our head.
And when you add the
two sides together,
five and five makes
10 fingers, 10 toes.
These are very specific.
And humans are considered
to be the microcosm
of the great pattern of the
universe and the tree of life.
And these same
numbers are in us.
And they're also
in the universe.
As above, so below.
As below, so above.
This is about the
path and helping
us to see the reflection of
the divine within ourselves.
It's showing us the
path that we can
follow to reclaim that
divinity while still being here
in the physical experience.
If words are formulas
for creation,
how are these words applied?
Well, to answer
this question, let's
look at three of the
simple letters that
were selected for creation.
These three letters
are Yod, He, Vau.
Now, if you add then a
second He to the end, which
happens elsewhere,
this then becomes
what's called the
Great Name needed
to bring the energy down
through the four worlds
into the physical plains.
This great name is
also referred to
or known as the Tetragrammaton.
And attempts at pronouncing
it have given us
names such as Yehovah,
Java, Yahweh, and so forth.
Now, these aren't
different beings
as some theories like to assert.
What they are is
different attempts
at referencing the
divine name composed
of the letters Yod He Vau He.
This divine name
is a combination
of letters that were used
to seal the universe.
And according to the
"Sepher Yetzirah" teachings,
these letters were used to
create the physical container
for our universe.
These letters were
uttered in order
to carry the energy down
from the spiritual plains
into the physical.
What does this mysterious
container look like?
To answer that, I'd like
to read to you directly
from the "Sepher Yetzirah."
This comes from the
end of chapter 1.
And it was said
that this great name
was used to seal the
universe in six directions.
And it reads, "He looked
above and he sealed the height
with Yod He Vau.
He looked below and he sealed
the depth with Yod Vau He.
He looked forward and he sealed
the east with He Yod Vau.
He looked backward and sealed
the west with Vau He Yod.
He looked to the right
and sealed the south
with Vau Yod He.
And he looked to the left
and sealed the north with He
Vau Yod."
What does this form?
Well, it forms the six
faces of the cube--
above, below, east,
west, north, and south,
and then the seventh
direction is the center.
These are the directions that
contain this physical universe.
And this cube is also
called the cube of space
or the cube of creation.
And this revelation brings us
into the mystery of the cube.
The cube is equally important
in Kabbalah as the tree of life.
We can arrange all of
the letters onto the cube
through the axes, the
faces, and the edges.
And working with this
cube is a big piece
of what we do in the
higher forms of Kabbalah
in its practical and
mystical applications.
Many ancient shamanic
and mystical traditions
also have a process of
calling in the powers
from the seven directions.
And something like
this is inherently
working with the
energy of the cube
but in a more shamanic
or elemental way.
How can we use this knowledge of
the cube within our own lives?
Well, the cube can become
an elaborate structure
that we build within us.
And that great name
of the Tetragrammaton
is used to help seal the
directions energetically.
And it establishes and contains
the space for creation inside.
And everything we
bring into our cube
is what ultimately
then manifests
into our physical life.
Any thoughts or vibrations
that we bring in
are manifested into
our physical life.
And that's why the cube is
the container for creation.
And understanding the cube
unlocks a greater understanding
for how to create and
manifest in our lives.
Another big mystery mentioned
in the "Sepher Yetzirah"
are what's known
as the 231 gates.
What are they?
Well, it says that the
22 letters are then
arranged around a sphere,
and then each letter
is combined with all the
other letters in pairs--
Aleph with Beyt, then with
Gimel, then Dalet, and so on.
And as these 22
letters are paired up
in this arrangement
on the sphere,
it forms what are
called the 231 gates.
And through these gates
all of creation flows.
But it says that the sphere
may rotate either forwards
or backwards.
When we rotate it
forwards, it brings good.
And when we rotate
it backwards, it's
said to bring evil or
nothing but torment.
It's very important that we
don't use this from a place
of ego or thinking that we
know when we really don't.
This isn't something to mess
with or play around with here.
It's something we
must prepare for--
the proper training and direct
handing down to use this.
And there are certain keys
described here in the "Sepher
Yetzirah," but there is
more to be handed down
in the oral tradition that
would be needed to work
with these gates properly.
But through these gates,
it's said that from nothing,
the source made something.
From the empty void was
made the material world.
And all life was brought forth.
So again, the 231 gates--
not something to play
around with or try
to produce anything with.
But it is a mandala that
we can meditate upon.
And when we do, the place
that we want to focus on
is the center point
of this image.
The center point is the place
where everything comes together
into one.
And when we meditate upon
that point, it centers us.
It brings us into a place of
silence, stillness, and purity.
It helps us to reset our being
into that oneness experience.
Meditating on this image
can be very powerful.
And it awakens us
and helps us become
more aware of our
multi-dimensional experience.
Now, you're looking at
the two-dimensional image.
But as you meditate, it takes
on a higher dimensionality.
And it coincides with
the movements of a Torus.
This image correlates with
the top view of that Torus.
And if we look at
the flow of the Torus
from a different perspective
looking now from the side,
we see that flow.
And meditating on this
image of the 231 gates
therefore moves so much
energy within our aura.
Now, even though this
is all very esoteric,
and it can often
seem complex, what
we need to remember about
the "Sepher Yetzirah"
is that it's all about life.
It's all about our
experience in the physical
and raising our vibration to
progress, learning the lessons
we're here to
learn that bring us
toward that attainment
of the Adam Kadmon.
This is about
applying it to life
so that we can harness our
ability to create in our life
and through our cube.
And through this experience,
we can gain greater knowledge,
understanding, and wisdom.
Now, as we do,
we're meant to help
bring that knowledge
forward and be someone
who then helps
show others the way
to having these experiences.
We're all meant to become
fully realized divine beings.
Whether this happens in our
physical life or the afterlife,
this is a key piece of training
us to one day attain the state.
The "Sepher Yetzirah"
is our code book,
bringing us into
practical application
to support our process.
It gives clues for how
we can harness the four
elements, the numbers, letters,
sounds, and sacred geometries,
to become more
skilled cocreators.
To work with this, let's start
with building our foundation
before we try jumping into
any advanced techniques.
If we try to jump without
a proper foundation,
we won't be able to sustain
whatever comes from that.
To begin, let's meditate
for a moment on the center
point of the 231 gates image.
It's good to quiet
the mind before going
into this experience.
As you meditate on
it with your eyes
open, focus from your third
eye to the center point
of the 231 gates.
Bring your attention
through your body.
And bring it all
into the third eye
and feel a beam of light
connecting from your third eye
to that center point
of the mandala.
After about a minute or two
of meditating on this image
with your eyes open,
slowly imagine now
that it's coming
into your third eye,
penetrating into your third
eye, and then close your eyes
and feel the image being
recreated within your mind.
Now, focus into your own center.
Bring yourself to
imagine that you
are one point within the
center of this image.
Now, from the
center, we're going
to establish the cube
and the seven directions.
The way we're going
to do this here
is by asking ourselves
some questions.
So from the center,
imagine in front of you
a wall beginning to form.
This is the north wall.
And in the north, we ask
ourselves this question.
Who am I?
When we ask this
question who am I,
we're not asking from a
perspective of personality.
This is an eternal question.
We're asking from
the realm of spirit
long before we had
a physical life.
And this is true of
all the questions
that we'll be asking ourselves.
We're trying to connect
to our divine essence--
the image of the
divine within us.
It's the I am presence within.
As we connect to
who am I, it helps
us to re-establish our sense
of strength as a divine being.
This is where we
source our power from.
This realization of the
I am, such as I am God,
I am an eternal being,
I am a divine spirit--
it helps us to
connect to our power.
Really feel that connection
and see that light.
See that power
flowing in to form
the north wall in front of you
to form a part of your cube.
As you ask that
question who am I,
you might receive an
answer that's spontaneous
that's coming from your spirit.
When you do, write it down or
speak it out loud or do both.
And once we've connected to
this essence of who we are,
now, we bring our attention
to the wall on our right side.
And we can call this the east.
And in the east,
we ask ourselves
the question, what am I?
What am I?
This question is
different from who
am I. It's more about
our unique qualities,
our attributes and gifts.
It's the way in which
the divine source
uniquely expresses itself
through us and our blueprints.
It's our unique way of creating.
What am I?
What are my gifts, my unique
qualities, and the way
that my power expresses itself?
Remembering again that this is
coming from our eternal being,
from our spirit, and is
not defined or limited
by this physical life.
Again, when you receive an
answer to the question what
am I, state it out loud.
Speak it.
Declare it, and then see
the energy solidifying
to form the right side or
the east wall of your cube,
and then write it down.
Next, we bring our attention
to the wall behind us
or the south wall of the cube.
And here we ask the question
where did I come from?
This is asking where we come
from on a spiritual level,
our spiritual ancestry.
It could also be the lineage
of our physical ancestral line
and how that
carries into our DNA
both physical and spiritual.
Where do I come from?
Again, the answers can be
limitless and manyfold.
So receive an answer.
Speak it out loud.
And write it down.
And see that energy
helping to solidify
the south wall of your cube.
Then we bring our
attention to the left side,
to the west wall of our cube.
The west is about the future.
It's about new beginnings
or the promise of tomorrow.
So in the west, we
ask where am I going?
And this is something we can
ask on an immediate level
such as where am I going
now, but we can also
ask it from beyond
this life where
am I going in my
spirit's eternal journey?
Where am I moving
forward from here?
Again, the answers
are limitless.
Work with this.
Receive an answer, and
then speak it out loud
and write it down.
And see that energy coalescing
to solidify and form
the west wall of your cube.
Then we look above.
And above is about our
connection to source.
And we ask what is my
spiritual foundation?
Who and what do I believe in?
What is my connection
to that source?
And how strong is it?
This is all a part
of that question what
is my spiritual foundation?
And the answers
again are limitless.
And they help form
the ceiling above us.
Then we look below.
And we ask what is my
physical foundation, meaning
what's important in my life?
What is my physical
life based on?
Maybe we could even
ask what do I want
to bring into my physical life?
And then finally, we
bring our awareness
into the center of the cube.
We come back to
ourselves in the center,
the center of our being.
And here we ask, what
is my purpose in life?
Why am I here?
And in the center, in a way,
it's the starting point,
but also everything comes
back to the center in the end.
We start with the
I am in the center,
and then we explore around
the walls of the cube.
And from the answers that we
get from the faces and the above
and below, all of it ultimately
should help tie everything
together into the center to
reveal answers for our purpose.
And of course, when we
ask what is my purpose,
we want to connect to our divine
essence, our eternal being,
and why we chose to
come into this life.
This physical world
is a place where
we can express our spirit
and our unique gifts.
And we build our cube or
our container for creation
to help manifest it out into
the physical with a purpose.
This is the foundation--
the core of magic
which is defined as changing
nothing into something
or changing something
into something else,
moving energy from
Source into us and then
into the physical
more purposefully
and powerfully with
greater choice and intent.
And as we work with this kind
of approach more and more,
and we study it more
deeply, and we master it,
it brings us greater
joy, greater peace,
and a greater flow of
abundance into our lives.
This is how we're
meant to create.
And from the core
essence of our being
as it expresses
itself into our soul
and then into the physical
world, the more answers
we receive over time, the
more they build up our cube.
And the stronger our cube
becomes, the stronger
our container for creation.
Now, sometimes the answers
that we get can be limiting.
Maybe we receive those
answers from a certain place
in our evolutionary journey.
And they were good
and true at the time.
And they might have
served us at that point.
But as we grow and
expand, sometimes those
answers then begin to limit us.
It creates a box
that we perceive
and define our world from.
And we need this box to
function in the world.
But at some point, it limits us.
So then what do we do?
Well, when we hit those points
where our growth is limited
and our capacity to flow
abundance becomes limited,
it's time to dismantle
and reassess everything
from scratch, to empty
our cup, to start fresh
with a beginner's mind,
and then build a new cube.
And this time, it's going
to be more expanded and all
encompassing.
Still creating
another container that
allows us to function
in this life, but now,
it's a bigger container.
Kabbalah is this
ongoing process.
There's never an end point
where we'd stop and say, I know.
There is always a part
that we won't know.
And we don't want
to limit ourselves
by just having one belief
system of who and what we are.
So in Kabbalah, we are
constantly evolving,
expanding our cube, and
sometimes dismantling it,
and building a new one, and
then expanding it again.
And part of knowing
ourselves is to know
when we stagnate and let go
of what we think we know.
Empty our cube.
Let it fall apart.
Only then can we then build a
new and stronger foundation,
knowing that we have the
tools to recreate ourselves.
Kabbalists are amazing at
this process of reinventing
ourselves again and again.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for exploring the
mysteries of the "Sepher
Yetzirah" with me in this
episode of "Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]